So adding the visual representation of our login is nice, we got the input fields but of course I want
to be able to handle the user input,
to store it and to finally then also submit it to the server eventually
and as I mentioned, for that we'll use the template driven approach.
Now you already learned how that works,
we can still listen to the submit event and for example call onLogin but there we need to manually
submit a reference to the form object managed by Angular and this can be done by adding a local reference,
login form for example and setting this equal to ngForm,
you remember Angular gives us access to the underlying object and then we can pass login form to the
submit method, excuse me,
to the onLogin method.
We also want to add local references to our inputs, like e-mail input so that we can use these in ngIf.
However there, we also need to assign a value
and that was ngModel
and for that to work, we needed to add a name attribute and ngModel to the input in the first place.
So name would be let's say e-mail and then we would add ngModel to register this as an input. Now e-mail
input also is able to get access to the underlying object controlled by Angular and we can use it in
ngIf to check whether e-mail input is valid and only if it is, excuse me, is invalid and if it is invalid,
then I want to show the error.
Now that of course also means we should add some validators and here,
I will simply add the required validator and the e-mail validator, a validator provided by Angular. This
will do what the name sounds like, it will validate whether this holds a valid e-mail address or not.
With that added, let's also do the same for the password.
Let's add a name here,
the name would be password for example, let's add ngModel
and let's also add a local reference, password input equal to ngModel to get access to the underlying
object
and then I'll add the required validator here. And then I will use password input, the name of the
local reference here in ngIf to check whether this is invalid, in which case I want to show the error.
With that if I save that, I can actually see
validators have been attached and if I enter something like test, we enter a valid e-mail address, so it
has to be something like test@test.com to, well fulfill this requirement
and here we have to enter anything.
Well hitting login,
well then submits the form because right now we don't have the onLogin method, so we're not doing anything.
If we add that in the login component, onLogin, we know we get the form object which is of type ngForm,
we saw that earlier in the course, you need to import ngForm from @angular/forms and then in here,
you can console log form value for example to output the values entered by the user.
So now if my re-enter, whoops, re-enter test@test.com and don't accidentally hit enter,
well then we see our values here before each time I accidentally did hit enter.
So now we're fetching these values, in order to be able to login,
we also need a sign-up screen though.
So let's work on this in the next step.